---
author: Tim
categories:
- Life
date: '2012-02-22'
permalink: /reboot/
title: Reboot
url: /post/reboot/
---

So, it's that time again. It comes once a year or so. The time to reformat your hard drive and get your computer as clean as a whistle.

I don't know about you, but over time I download and install many different apps and then uninstall just about as many. That leaves my computer hating me. I can sense it getting more and more frustrated every time I drag a new application into the folder. Well not anymore. Today it's smiling right back at me. With a squeaky clean hard drive and a fresh updated OS (Lion) my computer is ruining on all cylinders.

I also get a lot of people asking me quite often what I use as far as programs go. Well, when I decided to do my reboot, I made a list of all the programs I needed for daily work before I wiped them so I'd have a reference to look back on. I've decided to share it below&#8230; broken up into category.

I hope someone else finds this useful.

** System Programs**

  * Clean My Mac &#8211; very important. It keeps my mac running very smoothly.
  * Dropbox &#8211; for sharing files between co-workers
  * iBank &#8211; keeps my finances in order
  * VLC &#8211; the only way to watch movies
  * Carbonite &#8211; gotta keep things backed up

**Programming Tools**

  * Sublime Text 2 &#8211; wicked fast development
  * Coda &#8211; still pretty good&#8230; but slowly moving away from it for the one above
  * MAMP Pro &#8211; gotta have mamp
  * Sequal Pro &#8211; my favorite way to interact with my database locally and some online ones
  * iTerm &#8211; better version of Terminal
  * ColorSnapper &#8211; grabs colors
  * Filezilla &#8211; fastest FTP program I've ever used.

**Office Stuff**

  * Evernote &#8211; keeps things in sync
  * Pages &#8211; great word processor&#8230; much better than Word

**Photo and Slicing Programs**

  * Fireworks CS3 &#8211; I like this version the best
  * Photoshop CS5 &#8211; I finally upgraded and so far so good

Other than a few other random programs, that's all I run.
 